---
month: 2015/01
title: The American
date: 2015-01-30T19:21:50+00:00
draft: true
author: Molly Gaudry
category: fiction
issue: 9
summary: The story was first published in UpRightDown; also anthologized in Best
  of the Web 2009, edited by Lee K. Abbott
slug: ?p=254
type: post
year: "2015"
---
_The story was first published in UpRightDown; also anthologized in Best of the Web 2009, edited by Lee K. Abbott  
_  
They lunch at _L&#8217;olivier_, and during her first glass A&#8211; says, There was a tourist. Of course there was, D&#8211; chides, her disgust for tourists as palpable as the crème brûlée she abuses with her spoon. Was he good in bed, at least? C&#8211; asks. Except for the swearing, A&#8211; says, yes. Romantic B&#8211;, who has obviously never had her heart broken, sighs, So he was an American. Of course he was American, but I courted him, not the other way around. And now he&#8217;s returned to the United States and you miss him. B&#8211; removes a cigarette from her silver case. Please don&#8217;t light that, A&#8211; says, I haven&#8217;t finished my meal. All right, go on then, tell us about him. When was the affair? C&#8211; asks. He went home two weeks ago. You didn&#8217;t tell us, D&#8211; says. I didn&#8217;t think you would understand. I understand that you&#8217;re my friend and should have said something. So I was right, you don&#8217;t understand. I understand perfectly, you haven&#8217;t finished your wine. I&#8217;m not thirsty. Thirst has nothing to do with what I&#8217;m talking about. A&#8211; drains her glass and cuts her veal into grape-sized pieces. Lifetimes pass between swallows. D&#8211; loses patience. Give me a cigarette, she says. But A&#8211;&#8216;s still eating, B&#8211; says. It has never mattered before. It matters now, A&#8211; says, it matters now to have friends who will respect me and allow me to make my own decisions. You&#8217;re letting him off too easily, D&#8211; says, they&#8217;re all the same, especially Americans. Maybe I am, but he promised to write and I&#8217;m worried because he hasn&#8217;t, something terrible must have happened. Why don&#8217;t you call him, B&#8211; suggests. Because I would rather he called me. You could e-mail, C&#8211; offers. I have. Just once I hope. Yes, just once. What did you write? Only that I hoped he arrived safely. Is that all? And that I was thinking of him. You&#8217;re a fool, D&#8211; says. She&#8217;s not a fool. Yes, she is. Why do you say such things? Why can&#8217;t you just listen to her? I&#8217;ve already said it, because she is a fool, and so are they. All four gaze in the direction of D&#8211;&#8216;s upraised chin and see the same two people but differently. A&#8211; sees a happy American couple, happy, she thinks, because they wear their joy meaty on their bones the way the rich wear jewels and the poor their humble rags. D&#8211; sees two fat American pigs and wishes she were sitting in B&#8211;&#8216;s chair, so she wouldn&#8217;t have to see them. C&#8211; sees money, she always sees money where tourists are involved. She has a souvenir stand outside the Louvre, it was her father&#8217;s before he died, a suicide, she runs the family business in his honor, his name, her memories of him that much lovelier when tourists purchase his postcards. And B&#8211;, romantic B&#8211;, she sees nothing but the love that passes between two vacationers, U&#8211; and I&#8211;, who have come to Paris on business, competitors for the same promotion, and what&#8217;s true is that there is no love lost between them. Then U&#8211; begins to choke. Halp, halp, halp, U&#8211; gasps between fast breaths. Din&#8217;t, I&#8211; shouts. Halp, halp. Din&#8217;t tauch hem, watt jest a menit. There&#8217;s no time, A&#8211;, the beautiful one, the one I&#8211; has been admiring since entering L&#8217;olivier, says breathlessly, rushing over, heaving her fists beneath U&#8211;&#8216;s ribs. A mushroom cap launches from U&#8211;&#8216;s throat onto the floor. A&#8211; sits beside U&#8211; and smiles. That&#8217;s better, isn&#8217;t it? Are you all right? Tank you, U&#8211; says, tank you, tank you. It was nothing, A&#8211; says. Tank you all the same. When A&#8211; returns to her table, two of her friends applaud. You just saved that man&#8217;s life, B&#8211; says. It was nothing. It wasn&#8217;t nothing. He was going to choke and you saved him. You would have done the same, it was just that I reacted first. You&#8217;re my new hero, C&#8211; says, lips pinched white. And you, do you have nothing to say? A&#8211; asks. Forget him, D&#8211; whispers, staring at U&#8211;&#8216;s greasy chin and bulging cheeks, forget him the way that man has forgotten he nearly died but for your pity.
