---
title: '5 Poems'
author: "Daniel Bennett"
type: post
date: 2018-06-23T03:14:35+00:00
year: "2018"
month: "2018/06"
slug: '?p=733'
category: poetry
issue: 29

---
_The poems below might not have kept Bennett&#8217;s original indentations. For the PDF, click this [link][1].  
_ 

*

**Plantation House**

Lazy heat on the veranda.  
Slow crawl of days. Time ripples  
like white veins through red marble.  
The ceiling fan slaps a devil mask

in beating shadows. The man reads  
a two-day-old Financial Times,  
taps ash from a cheroot. The woman  
wears a white dress and straw hat, 

and the machete hacking foliage  
is the pulse in her breast.  
The library soundtrack hums  
with overloud cicadas

while the point of a dried leaf  
scrapes on chessboard tiles.  
Bird song is persistent, and choric.  
The camera performs a close up.

In the far trees, disgruntled monkeys  
plan a complex retribution  
for the mowing of the stately lawn.  
The owner is a Singaporean banker

but no one really belongs here  
except the house staff  
who pad through corridors  
lightly on bare feet.

They wait for the scene to play out  
with sly patience. They hold keys  
to all the rooms. The next guest  
will always look like you. 

*

**Ornithology**

Like a fluid burst of a saxophone line  
skittering out of silence  
and syncopating emerald ash the spring  
of new wet wood the rash  
of orange mould on green bark  
the sprig of crimson flowers  
bursting at the tree line  
the sky beyond the mountains  
and scree-littered vistas  
the mist bleeding from the lake  
down into paddy fields  
where the men weave palm leaves  
into a roof for an outhouse 

but we can also reclaim a habitat  
a pond a late spring  
some thirty years before  
my father bending to my shoulder  
pointing into grey sky as blue  
-edged wings hiccup  
on the upwards beat a flash  
of red at the hood and white at the breast  
a crest springing upwards to write

a perfect gift  
is to see a thing  
and name it. 

*

**Traffic**

Dawn and its white importunities:  
the soft cumulus of morning,  
a taxi hailed outside the hotel,  
the slender curve of the moon. 

Rogue shapes glide above us  
bent as bows, solemn and assiduous,  
sliding over date palms, the tiles  
of flat roofs. We imagine them to be birds

but discover they are bats  
gliding on fanged wings  
in slow circulations, their eyes trained  
for mango and papaya pulp, 

the juice of burst peaches.  
They skim like fleet fish,  
as we follow the route out of the city,  
past the closed up market stalls,

the paper factory, the stucco fort  
and dockyard development,  
a banana box wicket  
from a backstreet cricket match.

The bats are angels of our departure,  
surveying the walled gardens  
of the out-of-town development,  
the toll booth where traffic queues

wait for the absent attendant.  
Beside the dark motorway,  
gulls gather on a playing field  
ready to scatter as we drive on by.

* 

**Bathing in Ella**

Steam is the dominion,  
the white blush  
against glass blurs 

the mist beyond,  
erases mountains and  
finer intricacies of scrub:

a burst of date palms  
on the cliff edge  
is dissolved to spurts 

of fading smoke  
a pure sublimation,  
chemical, diffused. 

I sink  
deeper in the tub,  
plunge through water

the colour of red apple skins.  
Two thirds landscape,  
I embrace this surrender, 

this womblike simmering,  
an absent heart of this  
deft disappearance, 

a vague citizen of its empire  
only a knock  
at the door spins me back 

*

**Feathers**

Sylvia stayed reckless for beauty  
and fled to Malaga with a younger man,  
until disease called her homewards  
into cures and those recriminations  
that drift, circle, but never land. 

Everyone spoke about her final walk:  
Hyde Park, late spring, a wagtail  
descending on her finger,  
illuminating in a photograph  
what people called her soul.

The family would be haunted by birds.  
Magpies, peacocks, pigeons,  
the strange omens of crows and ravens.  
The parrot, Priscilla, lost in Kuwait  
hastily renamed from Elvis

after they’d discovered its sex.  
Or the sister released to a coastal town  
by widowhood, who suspected  
that one beady-eyed gull  
was her husband, picking over her peace.

After Sylvia died, a robin  
invaded her daughter&#8217;s house  
to chirp news from the dead. Now,  
as we sit on a veranda, a wagtail  
escapes the egrets and barbets,

the mist of these foreign hills  
to spy on us with impertinence.  
&#8216;Take a photo,&#8217; her granddaughter says,  
because such visits are expected.  
&#8216;It&#8217;s Sylvia, come back to say hello.&#8217;

\***

 [1]: http://bombayliterarymagazine.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/06/TBLM_Bennett_5Poems.pdf
